---
layout: post
title:  "Explaining the Website Title"
date:   2020-05-28
categories:
---
The website title "Hardboiled Dumbness" is a reference to a phrase that stuck with me while I was reading through Max Horkheimer's unpublished essay "On the Sociology of Class Relations" - "hardboiled smartness", an incredibly compelling indictment of the postmodern despondency that came to grip the political atmosphere of the 20th century. The death of dreams, of belief in alternative modes of living, of a reality that is free of the notion of the "basic injustice of class society." "He who is unable to adapt himself to this state of affairs, whether it is myself or any other man, the badly adjusted, stupid one, is rightly doomed." I struggled greatly, and continue to struggle to this day, with this attitude as I was transitioning from college to the workforce. At one end I saw my PMC colleagues and the culture of opportunistic, self-serving liberalism they represented - thoroughly and completely bought into the hardboiled reality, that systems and society take the form they do out of pragmatic necessity, that they have no choice but to pursue capital accumulation as the path to freedom. On the other end were the woke social activists, who demanded economic and social justice for the identities associated with historical and modern structural oppression. I saw opportunism on this end as well, which I gladly imbibed in to ease my guilty conscience of my PMC past. In my heart of hearts, however, I knew the [vampire castle](https://www.opendemocracy.net/en/opendemocracyuk/exiting-vampire-castle/) was a problematic place to be. Here too was a way of "essentializing" reality that I simply couldn't fully buy into - there was more than just malicious intent that drives the class divide, and there is real effort and skill required to be a successful owner of capital. In rejecting both lines, however, what am I left with - ideologically and professionally? I want to believe that I can align my work with my ideology, but my "ideology" itself has become purely negative - I see no hope of a better reality anywhere, not with the "Left", liberals, conservatives, or academics. However, I still refuse to fall into despondency. I want to continue engaging critically and intellectually with the current age, in hopes of developing a concept of personal freedom under capital's historical domination, and similarly how to define myself professionally in order to work towards both society's and my own freedom. A core mission of this website is to reject despondency and hardboiled smartness, to pursue actualization without fear of rejection or ridicule, to continuously put in the **effort** to live and develop myself - while holding onto the belief that an existence free of domination is still possible. At this moment, everyday is still a struggle with creeping depression, declining sense of self-worth, and vacillating compulsions between saying "fuck it all" and dedicating my life to becoming a rich tech programmer or committing suicide. But I still haven't given up yet.
